hello everyone this is mr brain junkie
here and today we're going to be talking
about a science fiction film called
coherence
be ready for some spoilers ahead the
main character emily is going to a
dinner party with her boyfriend kevin
on her way there she experiences
unusually bad signals
and her phone cracks for no particular
reason
she enters the house and greets the
hosts mike and lee
she also shows beth how her phone
cracked mysteriously while talking with
her boyfriend
emily suspects that he may have
something to do with the miller's
comment that's passing earth tonight
but her friend shucks it off as
superstition
emily's boyfriend and hugh beth's
husband arrive soon after as well
they talk about how amir their elusive
friend is bringing laurie to the party
in the last moment
who's apparently kevin's ex-girlfriend
personally
if i heard my ex-girlfriend is going to
meet my current girlfriend
i would have bailed five minutes ago to
make things worse the relationship is
strange because
emily doesn't want to go on a business
trip with him even though she doesn't
have too much going on in her life
anyways
just as the couple is arguing the third
wheel in the name of lori shows up with
a mirror
and the atmosphere just got a lot tenser
you can see laser beams zapping at each
other as the two women greet and share a
hug
during dinner they continue to talk
about the comet that's passing by and
how a similar one
occurred in 1923. what's weird about
that event
is that it changed people's memories who
were close to it
a woman swore to the police that her
husband is dead
but he appears nonetheless in front of
her after the comment
she's certain that her husband should be
dead as she's the one who killed him
but the police couldn't arrest her
because her husband is alive beside her
huge also notices that his phone broke
the same as
emily's this prompts him to try their
landline and computer to call his
brother
but there doesn't seem to be any signals
either hugh tells everyone about his
brother who's a physicist
and how his brother told him to call if
anything weird happens tonight
this makes everyone a little bit anxious
and as they all discuss jokingly about
this event
the lights suddenly go out in the house
leaving them in complete darkness
they managed to get some candles burning
and take some blue glow sticks to find
out what is happening
outside the whole neighborhood's in
complete darkness
except for one single house on the hills
with power and lights
they wonder how this is possible since
everyone seems to be out of power
except for them they head on inside and
discuss what to do next
to which huge tells everyone that his
brother told him beforehand
to stay inside no matter what and try
his best to call him when this happens
since calling is not an option without
signal or electricity
hugh decides that the only option is to
go to the other house with power
and ask them for help he promises to
return in a few minutes
and goes with his friend amir to the
other house taking the blue glow sticks
with them
as the group waits for their friend's
return they hear a loud bang on the
front door which scares everyone
kevin goes to check but sees that no
one's there lee tells her husband to fix
the generator in the basement
while the rest speculates about who it
can be their friends have been gone for
a while now
and they wonder if they should go find
them the light suddenly turns on as mike
manages to get the generator working
beth wants everyone to go as a group and
find her husband
but laurie disagrees as they might
themselves become lost in the process
just as the group is arguing about what
to do next the doorbell rings and the
two men comes back
they both look shocked while hugh has a
scar on his forehead
and amir has a metal box which he
grabbed from the other house
mike manages to open the box as he has
the keys to a similar one in his house
they find pictures of everyone inside
with a number written at the back
and a table tennis racket hugh tells
them that when he went to the other
house
he saw an exact copy of themselves with
exactly the same table and chairs
minus himself and a mirror his friends
have trouble believing him
and thinks they simply got lost went
around and came back to this house
but that doesn't explain the previous
knockings they heard
huge wants to go back to that house and
try to ask them for help again
and if he doesn't see anyone he will
leave a note
as he writes a note on a piece of paper
the group sees another man in their
front door
kevin opens the door only to find the
exact same note that hugh has just wrote
which freaks everyone out
the group tries to figure out the
meaning of the numbers with little
results
while lee puts a bandage on hugh's
forehead amir notices that his picture
has the same sweater that he's wearing
today
which means it must have been taken
today since he only bought it this
morning
the background of his picture also
suggests that it was taken
in this house emily also notices that
the numbers written on the back of the
pictures
looks very similar to her own
handwritings mike is tired of waiting
and doing nothing
and he convinces the group to go meet
their doppelgangers
laurie kevin mike and emily leaves while
lee takes a nap
upstairs they arrive at the house which
looks exactly like theirs
and mike sees everyone who stayed behind
inside this house as well
they're all freaked out and decides to
leave but just as they do
they see another group exactly the same
as themselves but with red glow sticks
instead of blue
and both groups run in fear they go back
and tell
their friends about what happened while
emily also mentions that they passed
through an area where it was completely
dark
amir and hugh agrees that they also went
through the same area when they went to
the other house the first time
beth remembers that her brother-in-law
left the book about quantum physics in
her husband's car
which may help them understand the
situation better
huge retrieves the book and through
reading it the group suspects that the
comet somehow created two realities
mike gets freaked out and wants to kill
their doppelgangers
as he believes he would die when the
comet passes
but that would never work out as the
other mic would be thinking about the
same thing
resulting in a stalemate kevin thinks
that their realities may be a little
different
as they saw beth sleeping instead of lee
in the other house
since beth is the one sleeping this also
means they wouldn't have retrieved the
book from hugh's car
nor arrived at the conclusion of the two
realities
with this hypothesis mike thinks that
they must steal the book from the other
group
to prevent them from attacking he wants
huge to give him his car keys but the
man refuses
with frustration mike tells kevin that
he will blackmail his doppelganger into
stopping the others from getting the
book
by threatening to reveal his affair with
hugh's wife
kevin thinks this is a terrible idea but
mike refuses to listen
and leaves the house while the group is
not looking amir and hugh reveals that
they originally had the red glow sticks
and are from another house they secretly
take all the pictures and the book from
this house and leaves
while mike comes back from the front
door kevin wonders how mike came back so
quickly
but mike says that he left for close to
an hour already
indicating that this is not the same mic
the group finds the book and other
pictures missing
along with amir and hugh they come to
the shocking realization that they're
probably from the other house
the lights go out again but this time
the generator is completely broken
they light up the candles again and to
their surprise
huge and amir with the blue glow sticks
comes back bringing the pictures and the
book from the other house
but the group notices that this huge and
amir is not the same version as the ones
before
since this huge has a different bandage
on his forehead emily asks them whether
if they left a note on the door from
before
to which huge says that he never got the
chance to do it since he also received
one while in the other house
this begs the question of who is leaving
the notes and the only explanation
is that there are more than two
realities out there
the group decides to make a unique
marker for their house by rolling random
numbers for each person and putting it
behind their pictures
they use their old pictures taken from
mike except for amir
who takes his own picture in the house
they also take a random
object to increase the uniqueness of the
marker and puts
everything in the box that mike has in
this house which coincidentally
is identical to the one from the other
house everything seems well and good at
first
but emily discovers something terrifying
when she checks for the numbers she
wrote down
using the pictures from the other house
the numbers are completely different
and written in a different color which
means she's not
in the same house as when she left she
further confirms this when her friends
give her numbers that doesn't match what
she remembers
she tells this to mike and speculates
that by going through the dark areas
they're randomly sent to a reality
different from the original
but this also means that there is no
going back to the reality to which they
came from
things get even worse when a note that
blackmails mike shows up under the front
door
that includes mike and beth's name hugh
demands to know what this means
and eventually finds out about their
affairs mike tries to tell him that
they're not from the same reality
but proceeds to get beat up by huge
another mike charges in the front door
and tries to kill this version of mike
which scares everyone in the room
in all this confusion emily decides to
leave all this chaos behind
and begins wandering through the
realities one by one
she eventually finds a version of
themselves where the power didn't go out
and everyone seems to be at peace she
breaks the windows on huge's car
causing everyone to come outside emily
takes this
opportunity to knock out her
doppelganger and locks her in the trunk
she goes back to the room and pretends
like nothing happened
but soon she sees her doppelganger has
escaped and went into the bathroom
emily follows in and proceeds to knock
her out and hide her in the bathtub
she tries to join the party but faints
from the stress
the next morning she wakes up and sees
that her copy has disappeared from the
bathroom
she goes outside to see kevin who hands
her a ring that her copy has dropped
thinking it was hers kevin hears a cell
phone ring
but is shocked that the one calling is
in fact emily
he picks up the phone and with a stunned
expression looks at the woman in front
of him not knowing what to say
so what do you guys think about this
movie let me know in the comments below
and if you like my video please press
like and subscribe for more
i'll see you guys next time